Add Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) to Port (#433)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/webhook/examples/packages/sbom.md

# SBOM

In this example you are going to create a `sbomComponent` blueprint that ingests all third party components in your `sbom.json` or `sbom.xml` file using a combination of Port's [API](../../../api/api.md) and [webhook functionality](../../webhook.md). You will then relate this blueprint to a `sbomVulnerability` blueprint, allowing you to map all the components affected by a security vulnerability.

To ingest the components and vulnerabilities to Port, a script that sends information about the SBOM file according to the webhook configuration is used.

## Prerequisites

Create the following blueprint definition and webhook configuration:

<details>
<summary>SBOM component blueprint</summary>
<ComponentBlueprint/>
</details>

<details>
<summary>SBOM vulnerability blueprint</summary>
<VulnerabilityBlueprint/>
</details>

<details>
<summary>SBOM webhook configuration</summary>

<SbomWebhookConfig/>

</details>

:::note
This documentation uses the [CycloneDX](https://cyclonedx.org/) SBOM standard. For more information on the schema structure, you can look [here](https://cyclonedx.org/docs/1.5/json/#components)
:::

## Working with Port's API and Bash script

> Here is an example snippet showing how to integrate Port's API and Webhook with your existing pipelines using Python and Bash:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are example snippets showing how to integrate Port's API and Webhook with your existing pipelines using Python and report SBOM entities from them:
```

<Tabs groupId="usage" defaultValue="json" values={[
{label: "JSON", value: "json"},
{label: "XML", value: "xml"}
]}>

<TabItem value="json">

Create the following Python script in your repository to create or update Port entities as part of your pipeline:

<details>
  <summary> Python script for CycloneDX JSON </summary>

```python showLineNumbers
import requests
import json
import os

> # Get environment variables using the config object or os.environ["KEY"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

            "reference": vulnerability.get("bom-ref", ""),
            "recommendation": vulnerability.get("recommendation", ""),
            "state": vulnerability.get("analysis", {}).get("state"),
            "ratings": vulnerability.get("ratings", []),
            "source": vulnerability.get("source", {}).get("name"),
            "affects": [bom_component.get("ref", "") for bom_component in vulnerability.get("affects", [])],
            "published": vulnerability.get("published", "")
        }
        vulnerabilities.append(vulnerability_data)

    entity_object = {
        "components": components,
        "vulnerabilities": vulnerabilities,
        "software_product": software_product,
        "software_version": software_version
    }
    webhook_response = add_entity_to_port(entity_object)
    return webhook_response

# Example usage
response = extract_sbom_data(PATH_TO_SBOM_JSON_FILE)
print(response)
```

</details>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="xml">

Create the following Python script in your repository to create or update Port entities as part of your pipeline:

<details>
  <summary> Python script for CycloneDX XML </summary>

```python showLineNumbers

> ## Import the needed libraries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

import requests
import xml.dom.minidom
import os

> # Get environment variables using the config object or os.environ["KEY"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
